<div id="overview"></div>
## Getting to know Indianapolis

Indianapolis is the capital and most populous city of the U.S. state of
Indiana, and also the county seat of Marion County. As of the 2010 census, the
city's population is 820,445. It is the 12th largest city in the United States
and the 29th largest metropolitan area in the United States.

Historically, Indianapolis has oriented itself around government (a byproduct
of its state capital function) and industry, particularly manufacturing. Over
the late decades of the 20th century, the city's Unigov began a long process to
revitalize the downtown area. Today, Indianapolis has a much more diversified
economy, contributing to the fields of education, health care, and finance.
Tourism is also a vital part of the economy of Indianapolis, with the city
playing host to numerous conventions and sporting events. Of these, perhaps the
most well known are the annual Indianapolis 500, Brickyard 400, and NHRA U.S.
Nationals. Other major sporting events include the annual Big Ten Conference
football championship and the Men's and Women's NCAA basketball tournaments.
Indianapolis also hosted the Super Bowl XLVI in 2012.

Both Forbes and Livability.com rank Indianapolis as one of the best downtowns
in the United States citing "more than 200 retail shops, more than 35 hotels,
nearly 300 restaurants and food options, movie theaters, sports venues,
museums, art galleries and parks" as attractions. Greater Indianapolis has seen
moderate growth among U.S. cities. The population of the metropolitan
statistical area was 1,756,241 according to the 2010 Census, making it the
34th-largest in the United States. The 2010 population of the Indianapolis
combined statistical area, a larger trade area, was 2,080,782, the 23rd-largest
in the country. Indianapolis is considered a gamma global city by the
Globalization and World Cities Research Network. In 2013, the city won Sister
Cities International's 2013 Best Overall Program award for jurisdictions of
population 500,000 and above.

<div id="history"></div>
## History

Native Americans who lived in the area originally included the Miami and Lenape
(or Delaware) tribes, but they were displaced from the area by the early
1820s.

Indianapolis was selected as the site of the new state capital in 1820, the old
state capital having been Corydon since the formation of the state of Indiana
in 1816. While most American state capitals tend to be located in the central
region of their respective states, Indianapolis is the closest capital to being
placed in the exact center of its state. It was founded on the White River
both because of this, and because of the incorrect assumption that the river
would serve as a major transportation artery. However, the waterway eventually
proved to be too sandy for trade. Jeremiah Sullivan, a judge of the Indiana
Supreme Court, invented the name Indianapolis by joining Indiana with polis,
the Greek word for city; Indianapolis literally means "Indiana City". The state
commissioned Alexander Ralston to design the new capital city. Ralston was an
apprentice to the French architect Pierre L'Enfant, and he helped L'Enfant plan
Washington, D.C. Ralston's original plan for Indianapolis called for a city of
only one square mile (3 km²). At the center of the city sat Governor's Circle,
a large circular commons, which was to be the site of the governor's mansion.
Meridian and Market Streets converge at the Circle and continue north–south and
east–west, respectively. The Capital moved from Corydon on January 10, 1825.
The governor's mansion was eventually demolished in 1857 and in its place
stands a 284-foot (87 m) tall neoclassical limestone and bronze monument, the
Indiana Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument. The surrounding street is now known as
Monument Circle or just "The Circle".

The city lies on the original east–west National Road. The first railroad to
serve Indianapolis, the Madison and Indianapolis, began operation on October 1,
1847, and subsequent railroad connections made expansive growth possible.
Indianapolis was the home of the first Union Station, or common rail passenger
terminal, in the United States. By the turn of the 20th century, Indianapolis
had become a large automobile manufacturer, rivaling the likes of Detroit. With
roads leading out of the city in all directions, Indianapolis became a major
hub of regional transport connecting to Chicago, Louisville, Cincinnati,
Columbus, Detroit, Cleveland, and St. Louis, befitting the capital of a state
whose nickname is "The Crossroads of America". This same network of roads would
allow quick and easy access to suburban areas in future years.

City population grew rapidly throughout the first half of the 20th century.
While rapid suburbanization began to take place in the second half of the
century, race relations deteriorated.[citation needed] Even so, on the night
that Martin Luther King, Jr. was assassinated, Indianapolis was one of the few
major cities in which rioting did not occur. Many credit the speech by
Robert F. Kennedy, who was in town campaigning for President that night, for
helping to calm the tensions. Racial tensions heightened in 1970 with the
passage of Unigov, which further isolated the middle class from Indianapolis's
growing African American community.[citation needed] Although Indianapolis and
the state of Indiana abolished segregated schools just prior to Brown vs. Board
of Education, the later action of court-ordered school desegregation busing by
Judge S. Hugh Dillin was a controversial change.

In 1970, non-Hispanic whites were about 80 percent of the population. The
1970s and 1980s ushered in a period of planning and revitalization for the
urban core of Indianapolis. Changes came early with the reorientation of the
city’s government. Unigov was created as the result of a 1970 consolidation
between city and county government. The city of Indianapolis merged most
government services with those of Marion County. For the most part, this
resulted in a unification of Indianapolis with its immediate suburbs. This
caused the boundaries of the city to grow tremendously, reflected in
Indianapolis’ jump in ranking to the nation's 11th largest city in 1970. The
City-County Building housed the newly consolidated government. At its
completion, the City-County Building became the city’s tallest building and the
first building in the city to be taller than the Soldiers' and Sailors'
Monument. Amidst the changes in government and growth, the city’s role as a
major transportation hub and tourist destination was further strengthened with
the Weir Cook Municipal Airport receiving its international designation in
1975.

In the 1970s and 1980s, Indianapolis suffered at the hands of urban decay and
white flight. Major revitalization of the city's blighted areas, such as Fall
Creek Place and Downtown Indianapolis, began in the 1980s and led to an
acceleration of growth on the fringes of the metropolitan area. The openings of
the RCA Dome, Circle Centre, and the Indianapolis Artsgarden revitalized the
central business district. The city hosted the 1987 Pan American Games. The
city and state have invested heavily in improvement projects such as an
expansion to the Indiana Convention Center, upgrade of the I-465 beltway, and
construction of an entirely new airport terminal for the Indianapolis
International Airport. Construction of the Indianapolis Colts' new home,
Lucas Oil Stadium, was completed in August 2008, and the hotel and convention
center expansion were completed in early 2011.

<div id="weather"></div>
## Weather

As is typical in much of the Midwest, Indianapolis has a humid continental
climate (Köppen climate classification Dfa) with four distinct seasons. Summers
are hot and humid, with a July daily average temperature of 75.4 °F (24.1 °C).
High temperatures reach or exceed 90 °F (32 °C) an average of 18 days each
year, and occasionally exceed 95 °F (35 °C). Spring and autumn are usually
pleasant, if at times unpredictable; midday temperature drops exceeding 30 °F
or 17 °C are common during March and April, and instances of very warm days (80
°F or 27 °C) followed within 36 hours by snowfall are not unusual during these
months. Winters are cold, with an average January temperature of 28.1 °F (−2.2
°C). Temperatures dip to 0 °F (−18 °C) or below an average of 4.7 nights per
year. The rainiest months occur in the spring and summer, with slightly
higher averages during May, June, and July. May is typically the wettest, with
an average of 5.05 inches (12.8 cm) of precipitation. Most rain is derived
from thunderstorm activity; there is no distinct dry season. The city's average
annual precipitation is 42.4 inches (108 cm), with snowfall averaging 25.9
inches (66 cm) per season. Official temperature extremes range from 106 °F (41
°C), set on July 14, 1936, to −27 °F (−33 °C), set on January 19,
1994.

<div id="culture"></div>

## Culture

Indianapolis prides itself on its rich cultural heritage. Several initiatives
have been made by the Indianapolis government in recent years to increase
Indianapolis's appeal as a destination for arts and culture.

### Cultural Districts

Indianapolis has designated six official Cultural Districts. They are Broad
Ripple Village, Massachusetts Avenue, Fountain Square, The Wholesale District,
Canal and White River State Park, and Indiana Avenue. These areas have held
historic and cultural importance to the city. In recent years they have been
revitalized and are becoming major centers for tourism, commerce and
residential living.

### Cultural Trail

Constructed between 2007 and 2013, the Indianapolis Cultural Trail is an urban
bike and pedestrian path that connects the city's five downtown Cultural
Districts, neighborhoods and entertainment amenities, and serves as the
downtown hub for the entire central Indiana greenway system. The trail includes
benches, bike racks, lighting, signage and bike rentals/drop-offs along the way
and also features local art work. It was officially opened in May 2013.

### Monument Circle

At the center of Indianapolis is Monument Circle, a traffic circle at the
intersection of Meridian and Market Streets, featuring the Soldiers' and
Sailors' Monument. Monument Circle is depicted on the city’s flag. It is in the
shadow of Indiana's tallest skyscraper, the Chase Tower. Until the early 1960s,
Indianapolis zoning laws stated that no building could be taller than the
Soldiers and Sailors Monument. Each Christmas season, lights are strung onto
the monument and lit in a ceremony known as the Circle of Lights, which
attracts tens of thousands of Hoosiers to downtown Indianapolis on the day
after Thanksgiving.

### War Memorial Plaza

A five-block plaza at the intersection of Meridian and Vermont surrounds a
large memorial dedicated to Hoosiers who have fought in American wars. It was
originally constructed to honor the Indiana soldiers who died in World War I,
but construction was halted due to lack of funding during the Great Depression,
and it was finished in 1951. The purpose of the memorial was later altered to
encompass all American wars in which Hoosiers fought.

The monument is modeled after the Mausoleum of Maussollos. At 210 feet (64 m)
tall, it is approximately 75 feet taller than the original Mausoleum. On the
north end of the War Memorial Plaza is the national headquarters of the
American Legion and the Indianapolis Public Library's Central Library.

### Indiana Statehouse

The Statehouse houses the Indiana General Assembly, the Governor of Indiana,
state courts, and other state officials.

### Monuments

The city is second only to Washington, D.C., for the number of war monuments
inside city limits.

  * The Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument, located at Monument Circle in the
    geographic center of the city.
  * Indiana World War Memorial Plaza
  * Medal of Honor Memorial
  * USS Indianapolis Memorial
  * Landmark for Peace Memorial
  * Project 9/11 Indianapolis

### Other heritage and history attractions:

  * American Legion National Headquarters
  * Crown Hill Cemetery
  * James Whitcomb Riley Museum Home
  * Lockerbie Square
  * Cole-Noble District
  * Indianapolis City Market
  * Madame Walker Theatre Center
  * Morris-Butler House
  * Obelisk Square
  * President Benjamin Harrison Home
  * Scottish Rite Cathedral

### Theaters and performing arts venues

Indianapolis is home to the following theaters, offering plays, Broadway
productions, concerts, and other live performances.

  * Beef &amp; Boards Dinner Theatre
  * Clowes Memorial Hall at Butler University
  * Indiana Repertory Theatre
  * Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra at Hilbert Circle Theater
  * Madame Walker Theatre Center
  * Murat Theater
  * Old National Centre
  * Phoenix Theatre

### Museums and galleries

The Children's Museum of Indianapolis is the largest children's museum in the world.

Indianapolis has a wide variety of museums and galleries which appeal to art
lovers, car enthusiasts, sports fans, history buffs, and science and technology
brain acts.

 * Children's Museum of Indianapolis
 * Indiana State Museum
 * Indiana State Police Museum
 * Indianapolis Art Center
 * Indianapolis Museum of Art
 * Indianapolis Artsgarden
 * Indianapolis Museum of Contemporary Art
 * Herron School of Art
 * NCAA Hall of Champions (Hall of Fame for college athletics)
 * Indianapolis Motor Speedway Hall of Fame Museum
 * National Art Museum of Sport
 * Colonel Eli Lilly Civil War Museum
 * Eiteljorg Museum of American Indians and Western Art
 * James Whitcomb Riley Museum Home
 * Conner Prairie (A living history museum)
 * Indiana Historical Society
 * Indiana Medical History Museum
 * Kurt Vonnegut Memorial Library
 * Dean Johnson Gallery

### Other points of interest

 * Heslar Naval Armory
 * Humane Society of Indianapolis
 * Indiana State Fairgrounds
 * Indianapolis Public Library
 * Irvington Historic District
 * Slippery Noodle Inn

### Conventions

In 2003, Indianapolis began hosting Gen Con, the largest role-playing game
convention in the North America (with record attendance being over 56,000 in
2014) at the Indiana Convention Center. Attendance of the event is expected to
increase as the center is expanded. The convention center has also recently
hosted to events such as Star Wars Celebration II and III, which brought in
Star Wars fans from around the world, including George Lucas.

Indianapolis hosted Super Bowl XLVI at Lucas Oil Stadium in 2012, the first
Super Bowl to be played in the city. The event attracted hundreds of thousands
of visitors to the city, and was by most accounts largely successful for the
city, making a proposed bid for a future Super Bowl likely.

Indianapolis hosted the National FFA Convention from 2006 to 2012 and will
rotate with Louisville every three years starting in 2013. The FFA Convention
draws approximately 55,000 attendees and has an estimated $30–$40 million
direct visitor impact on the local economy. Attendees occupy 13,000 hotel rooms
in 130 metro-area hotels on peak nights during the four-day convention, making
it the largest convention in the history of Indianapolis.

### Organizations

Indianapolis has evolved into a center for music. The city plays host to Music
for All, Inergy, Indy's Official Musical Ambassadors, the Percussive Arts
Society, and the American Pianists Association.

As well as being the home of the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra, Indianapolis
is also home to Bands of America (BOA), a nationwide organization of high
school marching, concert, and jazz bands. Indianapolis is now also the
international headquarters of Drum Corps International, a professional drum and
bugle corps association.

Indianapolis has been the headquarters of the Kiwanis International
organization since 1982. The organization and its youth-sponsored Kiwanis
Family counterparts, Circle K International and Key Club International,
administer all their international business and service initiatives from
Indianapolis.

Indianapolis contains the national headquarters for twenty-six fraternities and
sororities, many of which are congregated in the College Park area surrounding
The Pyramids.

### Festivals and events

The International Violin Competition of Indianapolis, Indy Jazz Fest, and the
DCI World Championships are all held in Indianapolis.

The Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra has hosted an annual outdoor summer concert
series at Conner Prairie called Marsh Symphony on the Prairie since 1982,
featuring a variety of musical styles.

The city has an arts community that includes many fairs celebrating a wide
variety of arts and crafts. They include the Broad Ripple Art Fair, Talbot
Street Art Fair, Carmel Arts Festival, Indian Market and Festival, and the
Penrod Art Fair.

Every May since 1957, Indianapolis has held the 500 Festival, a month of events
including a mini marathon and a festival parade, the latter being the day
before the Indianapolis 500.

Indianapolis is also home to the Indiana State Fair as well as the Heartland
Film Festival, the Indianapolis International Film Festival, the Indianapolis
Theatre Fringe Festival, the Indianapolis Alternative Media Festival, and the
Midwest Music Summit.

The Circle City Classic is one of America’s top historically African-American
college football games. This annual football game, held during the first
weekend of October, is the showcase event of an entire weekend. The weekend is
a celebration of cultural excellence and educational achievement while
showcasing the spirit, energy and tradition of America’s historically black
colleges and universities.

One of the largest ethnic and cultural heritage festivals in Indianapolis is
the Summer Celebration held by Indiana Black Expo. This ten-day national event
highlights the contributions of African-Americans to U.S. society and culture
and provides educational, entertainment, and networking opportunities to the
over 300,000 participants from around the country.

During the month of June, the Indianapolis Italian Street Festival is held at
Holy Rosary Church just south of downtown.

Indy's International Festival is held annually in November at the Indiana State
Fairgrounds. Local ethnic groups, vendors and performers are featured alongside
national and international performers.

Since 2006, in the months of March and October, Midwest Fashion Week takes
place, promoting both local and national designers. Started by Berny Martin of
Catou, this event has grown to become a premier event in Indianapolis.

<div id="sports"></div>
## Sports

The labels of The Amateur Sports Capital of the World and The Racing Capital of
the World have both been applied to Indianapolis. The headquarters of the
National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), the main governing body for
U.S. collegiate sports, is located in Indianapolis, as is the National
Federation of State High School Associations. The city is home to the
headquarters of three NCAA athletics conferences, the Horizon League (Division
I), the Great Lakes Valley Conference (Division II), and the Heartland
Collegiate Athletic Conference (Division III). The national offices for the
governing bodies of several sports are located in Indianapolis, including USA
Gymnastics, USA Diving, US Synchronized Swimming, and USA Track &amp; Field.

Indianapolis is home to two major league sports teams. The Indianapolis Colts
of the National Football League (NFL) have been based in Indianapolis since
relocating there in 1984, and play their home games in Lucas Oil Stadium. The
Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association (NBA) play their home
games at Bankers Life Fieldhouse; they began play in 1967 in the American
Basketball Association (ABA) and joined the NBA when the leagues merged in
1976.

Indianapolis has hosted numerous sporting events, including the US Open Series'
Indianapolis Tennis Championships (1988–2009), the 2002 World Basketball
Championships, the 2011 Big Ten Football Championship Game, Super Bowl XLVI (in
2012), and the 1987 Pan American Games. Other notable annual sporting events
include the Drum Corps International World Championships, and the Music for All
Bands of America Grand National Championships. Starting in 2002, Indianapolis
began hosting the Big Ten Conference Men's Basketball Tournament at Bankers
Life Fieldhouse, alternating years with the United Center in Chicago. From 2008
to 2012, Indianapolis was the sole city to host the tournament. Beginning in
2013, Chicago and Indianapolis began alternating again.

Indianapolis is home to the OneAmerica 500 Festival Mini-Marathon, the largest
mini-marathon (and eighth-largest running event) in America. 2007 was the 30th
anniversary of the Mini, run in the first weekend in May every year. This event
is part of the 500 Festival, its 50th year running. The race starts on
Washington Street just off Monument Circle, goes to the brickyard, and ends on
New York Street back downtown. The Mini has been sold out every year, with well
over 35,000 runners participating.

<div id="recreation"></div>
## Recreation

### Parks

Indianapolis has an extensive municipal park system with nearly 200 parks
occupying over 10,000 acres (40 km2). The flagship Eagle Creek Park is the
largest municipal park in the city, and ranks among the largest urban parks in
the United States.

Other major Indianapolis Regional parks include:

  * Garfield Park (Established in 1881, it is the oldest city park in
    Indianapolis and contains a conservatory and sunken gardens. Located on the
    Near South Side)
  * Riverside Park (Near West Side)
  * Sahm Park (Northeast side)
  * Southeastway Park (Franklin Township, Marion County)
  * Southwestway Park (Decatur Township, Marion County)
  * White River State Park (Just West of downtown. Has cultural, educational
    and recreational attractions as well as trails and waterways.)
  * Additionally, Indianapolis has an urban forestry program that is recognized
    by the National Arbor Day Foundation's Tree City USA standards.

### Indianapolis Zoo

Opened in 1988, the Indianapolis Zoo is the largest zoo in the state, and is
located just west of downtown in White River State Park. It has 360 species of
animals, and is known for its dolphin exhibit.

